# Music I'm Listening To



*Erra* released their new self-titled album a few days ago and it's been wonderful.
A lot of the best songs were singles (*House of Glass*, *Scorpion Hymn*), but the rest of the album still delivered.
*House of Glass*, *Scorpion Hymn* and *Gungrave* deliver the heavy with some fun riffing and drumming, *Vanish Canvas* goes full *Periphery*, and Jesse pulls out a *Polyphia*-esque solo in *Remnant*.
While I think the first half of the album is stronger than the second, it's overall great.

I've been getting into progressive metal more over the last while and *Protest the Hero*'s *Palimpsest* has been on, on a loop.
Standout tracks for me are *Little Snakes*, *The Fireside* and *Soliloquy*, but the album is also incredible all around.
The themes are pretty diverse in scope, but all centred around North America's history (as far as I know); from genocide and the military-industrial complex, to the Hindenburg and Amelia Earhart.
Rody has such a unique voice, and the entire band is clearly very talented. Overall, I love it.

In terms of individual songs, I've succumbed to the filth, and have *Gored* by *Loathe* and *Viscera* by *Veil of Maya* on a loop, with *Anger* by *Left To Suffer* being less disgusting, but more angry third.

I've been listening to a lot of *Arctic Monkeys*, mostly to drum to; think *Dancing Shoes*, *Fake Tales from San Francisco*, and *Fluorescent Adolescent*.
Fun stuff with not-too-complicated beats so I can keep up.

Overall, I think I need to get outside the metal bubble and explore other genres more. Reddit and Tildes have given me a good starting place in electronic/dubstep, and I stumbled onto Gesaffelstein recently, so I'm excited to see what else is in there.


---
20 March 2021.

## References
 



## Related articles

=> /post/things-i-want-to-do/index.gmi Things I Want to Do
=> /post/switzerland-4-month/index.gmi Living and Studying in Switzerland - 4 Month Retrospective
=> /post/job-stats/index.gmi My Job Application Statistics
---

=> / Back to site home
=> https://milddermatographia.com/post/music-listening-to/ View this article on the WWW
