# Review: The Princess Switch 2: Switched Again



## Plot

The story takes off 6 months after the first; Vanessa Hudgens is now married to the prince and living quite happily, while Vanessa Hudgens has broken up with Simple Man due to her soon-to-be queenly responsibilities.
She wants to rekindle her relationship with him, so her and Vanessa Hudgens swap places once more, Vanessa Hudgens taking the role of the princess, and Vanessa Hudgens, the role of the baker.
Things are going well, until Vanessa Hudgens is introduced, the evil cousin of Vanessa Hudgens.
Vanessa Hudgens was rich, but blew all her money, and is looking for a way to make a quick buck.
Her plan: kidnap Vanessa Hudgens, impersonate her, become queen, take all the money, and run somewhere with no extradition laws.
During an event, Vanessa Hudgens kidnaps Vanessa Hudgens and takes her place, but upon meeting Vanessa Hudgens, she realized she kidnapped the wrong Vanessa Hudgens.
Vanessa Hudgens asks her to switch back, but Vanessa Hudgens refuses, since no-one could possibly distinguish between Vanessa Hudgens and Vanessa Hudgens.
That's about as far as we've gotten into the film so far, stay tuned for the final summary.

## Review

The prince's hair is scared of his ears and everyone in the made-up kingdom is British.

Rating: Vanessa Hudgens/10


---
20 December 2021.

## References
 



## Related articles

=> /post/impermanence/index.gmi Review: Impermanence - Abbey Road Version by Architects
=> /post/idiocracy/index.gmi Is There a Truth to Idiocracy?
=> /post/dont-look-up/index.gmi Don't Look Up
---

=> / Back to site home
=> https://milddermatographia.com/post/vanessa-hudgens/ View this article on the WWW
