# Scholarships



Tuition at my university costed about $\$10,000$ per year; a steal when compared to lofty American universities like Stanford ($\$80,000$), not great when compared to other schools in Canada (around $\$6,000-\$8,000$), and downright criminal when compared to some European schools (free?).
This cost was partially offset by a decent scholarship setup.
My entry scholarship was worth $\$4,000$ for every year of my degree.
Since it was a 5 year degree, this effectively covered $\$20,000$ of tuition, or about two-fifths the cost of my degree.

Since September of this year, however, the scholarship is only worth the full $\$4,000$ for the first year and $\$1,000$ for every subsequent one, effectively losing a student $\$12,000$ over a 5 year program. Oof.
Undergrad wasn't the only place that was hit; previously, every student who entered the program with an average over 8/10 received a $\$15,000$ per year scholarship.
Considering graduate tuition is $\$6,000$ per year, it was a pretty sweet deal.
It covered tuition and likely a good chunk of cost of living, with generous TA salaries to cover the rest.
As of September of this year, the scholarships were severely gimped.
Instead of $\$15,000$ per year, the scholarship is now worth $\$7,500$ for the entire degree.
This barely covers half the cost of tuition, in contrast to full tuition and cost of living!

So why did they cut the value of undergraduate and graduate scholarships by three quarters?
I have no clue.
All I know is that it's removed my last shred of desire to stay at this university for graduate studies.

Also, I can't figure out how to setup LaTeX in Hugo.

**2021-02-03:** I emailed my university and the person who answered gave a potential cause: the university is redirecting funds from Undergraduate and Graduate scholarships to fund PhD students more.
Can't say it's not fair, they can choose who they want to prioritise.
That said, other universities I've applied to are in very similar cities in terms of cost of living/rent and have similar tuition rates, but have guaranteed scholarships that cover full tuition for both graduate and PhD students, with a decent amount left over for cost of living.
Oh, and they're not just for first year of the degree, but for each year.


---
13 February 2021.

## References
 



## Related articles

=> /post/all-music-sucks/index.gmi All Music Sucks
=> /post/washroom-stalls/index.gmi Washroom Stalls in North America Suck
=> /post/wide-shoes/index.gmi Wide Shoes
---

=> / Back to site home
=> https://milddermatographia.com/post/scholarships/ View this article on the WWW
